With the basics out of the way,
let's turn this into a very basic REST API.
For that, I'll actually add a routes folder again,
and in there have my basic routes
and now let's say we're building
a very simple to do app REST API.
Certainly not the most exciting thing we can build,
but a great practice for Node Express and TypeScript.
So here I have my todos.ts file,
and in there I now import,
express from 'express',
to then create that router here
by calling express router right?
That's what you'll learn throughout this course.
Well, actually now with this new import syntax,
we can actually also change it slightly
and import router like that,
between curly braces from 'express'
and then just call it like this.
So instead of importing the entire express object
and then extracting what we want,
this is a import syntax
which automatically only imports what we need.
So again, a little advantage we gain by using TypeScript,
because this arguably is shorter
than what we had to write before.
Now when we wanna export something
we also now don't have to do module exports equal router,
but instead we can just export default router.
And this will export router
as the default export in this file.
The default export then simply is what we can import
an app.ts with todosRoutes from './routes/todos';
This import syntax will always pick
the default export of a file
and you can name it here however you want,
this doesn't have to be the name you used for exporting,
it can be a different name, as you see here.
We can then of course, as before,
use our todosRoutes as middleware with the use method.
And now back in the route's file
we can register the routes we need.
So here we can add a get route.
Let's say with the pop slash,
that should just fetch all todos.
So we got the request, the response
and this next function
and we can work with that here.
And now what's really nice,
is that again we get auto completion on all those things.
TypeScript knows the types of this request parameters,
of the response parameter and of the next parameter.
It knows which kind of data we get there,
and hence it's able to support us
and therefore the IDE is able to support us
when we work with those values.
So for example here for getting data,
we might wanna return our todos.
So let's say we're managing the todos here,
simply in such a constant and therefore only in memory,
because it's just a dummy example here.
Then we could simply call response,
status 200, json
and there simply return our todos
on a todos property in that object
which we're sending back.
Now here we're now getting a complaint
by TypeScript in the IDE,
and we would also get this if we tried to compile this code.
And that is that.
The variable todos is implicitly of type any array
and its true, we're not specifying
which kind of data will end up in this array eventually.
And that's something we wanna do.
As I explained in the previous lectures as well
because this allows us to write cleaner code
where we avoid mistakes
by passing an incomplete data for example.
We can avoid such mistakes
by making it very clear which kind of data we want here.
So lets implement this
and continue with the entire REST API in the next lectures.